Welcome back.
Lovely God.
People in this video are going to create robot in pieces.
It's just the start of them were going to tweak them later on the course.
But what I mean visioning it is what it's wow that's hard to say what and seeing with these robot indices
is the following very very simple.
All they're going to do is use a ray cast to figure out when they should fire.
When a player crosses a ray they know to fire and they're going to move from side to side in a regular
pattern.
Really these are glorified extras from Space Invaders.
Right.
That's what I'm seeing.
I'm just seeing them in three dimensions.
But that's the kind of behaviour I'm looking at.
We don't need any complicated behaviour trees or state machines.
They're just going to move from side to side and fire.
So let's go to got to the very first thing to do is take a look in models and in a robot and you'll
see there's a robot.
ESPN and Robert tcn ecn is the blender file right.
This is the import using the god importer.
And you'll see it's kind of messed up a little bit and I had to change it for robot TSM which is the
same thing but moved.
But I don't really want the tcn I want the robot armature.
So what I need to do here is right click on Robert omniture and save branch a scene.
So within scenes within characters make a new folder called Robot and then call this robot army tcn.
So all I've done is I've just removed the robot armature from its parent node the parent has a spatial
I don't want the spatial I just want the armature.
I can now close both of those scenes and instead look to a new inherited scene where we go from characters.
So when I go into scenes characters and use character what they want to do is remove the script from
this.
Robert's gone have its own script.
I'm not going to rename this robot and bring in the armature.
So let's import.
Where is it.
It's in scenes characters.
I've just done this thing in rambert.
ROBERT Yeah great.
And look it's twice the size it needs to be stuck with a scale that down to a transform scale.
I'm thinking zero point five on up.
No that's wrong zero point five.
Not 0 5.
And that gets right up to the top and uses the same colour and shape and that's awesome.
Now I'm going to hide our mission in essence and I'm going to make sure we can see all the child knows.
Going to editable children.
First thing I want to do is figure out which animation I want buy into animations were not Coney's or
these.
But one thing I do want to use is running and that should be set to auto play and Loop.
So outlash see how that looks great.
And that should be good to go.
Cool.
So I now have my robot seen on a save that.
Under Robert.
I just call it robot.
There's a couple more things I want to do.
First this check that Ford is in the right place.
Ford is the right place.
But I also want a raise.
So let's make a new ray.
Back up to the root note.
I want a rake cast and the ray casts currently is at the bottom.
I don't want that.
I want it more roughly where the ford is to be honest.
So let's just raise that.
Now we need to cast to right now we are casting to zero on the axe which is good.
Negative one.
Why so.
Down on the wire.
Which is bad.
I'm not sure why he started running again.
So what it is zero and the z axis the z axis is all I care about.
So let's.
What do you think.
My son may have a hundred meters.
Anything that crosses that 100 meters that's way too big isn't it.
Fifty.
Yeah.
Let's find 50 in it.
So we have this ray and the idea is anything that crosses the ray is going to you know trigger a fire.
So let's enable it and make sure it's excluding the parent and that should be most of the way there.
All right.
Before we get further let's put one in the scene so I'm going to go back to level 1 maguy new note and
call this one robots and let's see I'm gonna put a robot in instance and a robot right here.
So in this instance you in.
And how's that looking.
It's looking pretty solid game.
Play the scene make sure Robert looks good.
See if he animates.
He admits once but doesn't look as curious but he's looking good is a good size and like a fire thrown
at him.
Awesome.
Ah right.
So back into our robot scene.
Let's see why.
You are not animating properly did to do back into the correct running thing.
You are looping you should be working ok.
Sometimes when I import from ESPN I'm not sure why the animations don't loops are going to do that in
script for now outlets making script for a robot.
And as you might expect we're putting that doo doo doo doo in our scraps.
Which is not in scenes.
There it is.
And I'm calling it robot and it's going to inherit from character.
So what I want to do now is make sure that when the right cast is colliding the robot's going to fire
at us like a function.
And I'm going to do a physics process.
For some reason also complete isn't playing I'm not entirely sure why but that's fine physics process
which takes Delta.
What do we need.
We need if Ray cast there it is.
What is colliding.
And if it is we're going to fire now.
Couple of things we should be aware of.
First this railcars is just checking.
Is anything colliding.
And second we have nothing to stop it.
Little fire and it'll keep firing as long as anything now crosses that line which could look like this.
Always colliding with it.
And it's just going to keep quiet.
Okay.
That's clearly not what we want.
So let's solve problem one first.
We need to make sure that this Ray only detects the player is a few different ways.
We can do this but I'd like to see the solution you come up with.
So my challenge for you is to only fire at the player have the NPC Ray cast only trigger the fire function
when the player crosses it.
So pause the video give it a shot.
When you have you the solution come on back and I'll show you how I would solve it.
And welcome back.
OK there's a few things we could do here.
One we could go into the script and do something with is colliton we could get the collider and do that.
This you say Delta not detlor.
I'm not going to do that.
I am going to use collision masks.
So what I need to do is go into this scene and start adding some colour and that's we haven't done any
yet.
So I have touraine player NPC at the moment those are my important ones.
We can always add more later.
So let's go in to our physics 3D physics.
Here we go.
So level 1 I'm going to call touraine led to Michael player and play a three is going to be NPC coach.
Got those.
Now we need to add things in to the correct collision layers.
So let's start with our player.
Let's go into the actual player scene and do it here.
And that's going to be important because we're going to have the ability to switch players out later.
It's good to physics body collision mask.
You are not trained.
You are player however you interact with trains and end pieces you know.
We should probably have one for food as well but we can leave that for now.
And no you know let's put it in project settings.
New Thing.
Great.
So you can interact with touraine and parks and food.
The way I minisub the game it's actually going to be impossible for the player and the food touch each
other and not play of food play an NPC to touch each other.
But maybe your game will be different and that's put in the possibility of changing.
Some are saying that that's going to a robot and.
Back in a physics body.
You are an NPC you interact with train players and food could also have you interact with them.
But let's not.
Finally let's go to projectile which is in sequence.
And ammo can open a projectile scene.
And I'm going to put in the collision information here so you are food and you interact with everything
including other bits of food.
I want to make it so that you can shoot food down right back into the robot.
And now the rope the ray cast only interacts the player which should mean.
So we're still at the crazing machine gunfire but only when the player crossed that line.
Now let's make that firing a little less hectic.
We're already using.
If I open the play a script right here we've got can fire which is part of the character scene so the
robot has access to it and the player has access to it.
And we've already got this logic here.
So what we do is just add all this logic to the script.
So we're going to add right here.
If recast is colliding and can fire that's going to work right.
So if can fire is true and the player has moved into the range of the two countries you want then fire.
We also want to set can fire to faults.
And I mean just look at my incredible typing for a moment.
VAT is kind of worthy of a small prise.
I mean I really feel like that should be immortalise maybe framed but let's write it properly.
Can fire equals false.
OK that's a little bit more professional.
And I also want to start this can fire Taino because that's what it's for.
So it can fire not start.
So let's make sure that everything works fine.
And it does.
The robot can only file once a second.
OK.
If I wanted to I could put another time in here and add a delay to say a half second delay between the
player going in and the robot firing if I wanted to add some reactions but I'm actually pretty happy
with this.
Well I do want to do is make sure that the robot is actually having a looping animation right now he
isn't.
Let's fix this in scripts and do function.
Ready.
And again I'm not sure why auto complete isn't working right now.
It really should be.
Should underscore or should.
And what they want to do is get the animation player and the correct information.
So first let's grab the animation player so animation player there it is and what it gets.
Animation and specifically I want robots running.
So robots.
Why aren't you auto competing you are so strange.
You're called Robot underscore running and I want to set the loop subset loop.
That's another function.
And that's true.
Let's double check.
And you are now running happily.
You're actually a little bit lower on the raise the robot up into the air slightly.
So here we go.
Robot you going up in the air.
Awesome.
OK.
Now I want this robot to go left and right.
And what I do here is add a second animation animation player within the robots that's got back into
the robot scene and at the root.
So at Robot this add an animation player and I'm sure they call this position animation.
I want to call it position animation because this one is animating the position the level.
The other one is animating the movement of the limbs.
I don't want to call either them Movement animation because that's a little bit.
So what I'm looking for vague.
There we go.
All right so let's get this robot and I'm going to give it some animations So let's start you over here
and your child as well children.
Isn't there was because I like to save save you and your child when I have a new animation work on it
call you Movement.
Let's start with your translation.
I make a key.
Yeah that's a good place.
Key.
Right.
OK.
So I think it's going to take one two three four seconds there and four seconds back some have an eight
second animation with steps of one second.
And let's say four seconds to get to the other side.
So each corner of each of here is about right.
And you know I could just type in a number and then it's going to loop and auto start and that should
be everything I need.
Let's check.
You know what that's a little bit slow isn't it.
OK.
So let's make you a four second animation has that feel.
Split the difference and call it six seconds.
There we are.
Perfect.
And now I press play.
Now the moment we have no way of measuring damage but we do have is a robot NPC that can run across
a lot.
Actually I am going to speed that up for the four seconds.
I lied.
I did a terrible lying thing.
There we go.
So you can take two seconds to reach your side and your total unemotional like is four seconds.
Now let's say I want more than one robot.
I don't want to just duplicate this one.
And the reason why I don't want to duplicate this one is if I duplicate this move I'm gonna be here
if I change anything to do this animation it'll change it for both look.
I move the animation here and now they both have that animation.
So let's undo both of those steps in ceremony instance in a new robot.
And this robot to who is over here can go right there.
Now you see here that the animation is actually still the same but that's because we're still looking
at the animation from robot one.
Let's open a robot to the child and look at this position animation very different.
So let's see where you are at position 0 you are here.
I was at Robert tu's positions zero to the other side.
So let's make a new animation
and set you to over here a little bit higher than that.
And there is your transform key at seven right.
And we're going to copy through the informations are 1 second steps and it's for second animation.
Is that right.
Four seconds.
That is right.
OK.
Two seconds.
You are going to be on the other side.
And with a loop and auto start.
And now when I press play.
We have two robots.
They're aiming for us now a couple of things you'll notice.
One I can cross over this line.
Let's change that later too while the robots don't shoot at each other.
The back one can hit the front of time it just right.
Right so I want to make sure that that either won't happen or if it does that the food isn't down to
down the robot.
But right now I would have damaging.
We do have two robots.
So that brings the end of the video in this video with added adversaries with reused railcars which
we've used before but now we're using them in three dimensions with use a mask which we've used before
with building on all that knowledge to get to a position where well look we're almost there right.
We need to add some damage of some lights for ourselves and for the robots.
A few more animations but we're getting there this game is start to come together really nicely.
So what kind of solution did you come up with.
Did you also use lay a mask or did you do it in code.
Share your successes and your stories.
I'd love to hear them.
Meanwhile excellent work and I'll see your next video.